Good morning.
Welcome to the weather in England.
My name is Malcolm Crawford.
I'm a technical writer at Apple.
And this morning we're going
to talk about bindings.
Can I just do a level check quickly?
Can everybody hear me in the back?
"Can you raise a hand if
you can hear me at the back?
Good, excellent.
Today is not a hands-on session,
it's going to be a hands-up session.
I want to check to see
how everybody's doing.
Can everybody who's got
a hand raise a hand?"
Excellent.
A few missing.
Shame.
Sorry.
So, what are we going to do today?
Roughly, we're going to talk about
what are Cocoa bindings,
what's a problem they solve,
and in particular,
a slightly different tack on things.
We're going to look to see how do
bindings actually work underneath.
Can we see another
hand-raising opportunity here?
Who's actually used
Cocoa bindings already?
and keep your hands raised if
you're still mystified by them.
Okay, so what we want to try to do this
morning is engage in some sort
of a demystification process.
So what I'm hoping is that if everybody
understands how bindings work,
and in particular sees that there's no
magic involved in how bindings work,
then there'll be somewhat
less of a mystery.
So,
We'll see how they work and
then we'll also take a quick
nod at what are controllers and
what are value transformers.
So, what we'll learn is first of
all how to establish bindings,
that's a word I'm going
to come back to later,
establish both in Interface
Builder and in code.
We'll also look at the
underlying technologies.
There are three main
underlying technologies:
key value binding, key value coding,
and key value observing.
In order to illustrate how
bindings actually work,
we'll go through the principles
of how you would actually go about
implementing a bindings-enabled view.
We won't actually look at it in detail.
There is some sample code that
will be available afterwards for
you to have a look at in detail,
but we're not going to
go through the details.
We're just going to
look at the principles.
We'll have a little look
at the role of controllers,
and then we'll look
at value transformers.
To address the first question, though,
What are Cocoa Bindings?
For those who are still mystified,
the simplest way of describing bindings
is as a set of technologies that
keep models and views synchronized.
Is anybody still mystified by that?
I was trying to see if I could find any
shorter number of words to describe it,
but in principle, all you've got is some
sort of view widget,
some sort of model or
data-bearing object,
and values in both of them,
and you want to keep them synchronized.
That's all bindings is about.
So I hope as a concept,
that's very straightforward.
Quick tangent on this
one while we're here.
Notice that I am saying models
and views should be kept in sync.
There is a temptation, I notice,
for some people to try to keep model
objects in sync with each other or
to bind two view objects together.
Please don't do that.
That's not the way that it's designed.
Things won't work as you
expect if you do that.
So that may address one particular
issue that some people are having.
So what problem is it
then that bindings serve?
solve.
Imagine a very, very simple application.
We've got a window on screen
that has two UI widgets,
a text field and a slider.
Somewhere floating around we have a
data object that has a single value,
a number.
We want to keep the value
of the data object's number,
the value of the slider represents,
and the value of the text field in sync.
Typically,
that's just--can anybody-- if you're
just writing normal Cocoa code,
can everybody figure-- who would be
absolutely blown away by trying to
implement this using normal Cocoa?
Has this left anybody behind?
Can anybody not figure out how they
would do this in normal Cocoa code?
I'm going to show it afterwards.
Okay.
So, trivial,
you'd have a whole load of outlets,
or a couple of outlets at least,
some update code, some glue code.
It would be trivial to do,
but it's really tedious work.
It's not stuff that you want
to have to do every day.
And on a simple user interface like this,
it's easy enough.
But when you have 17
different text fields,
when you have three table views,
when you have your own custom view,
an outline view, and all the rest of it,
suddenly it becomes a much bigger
exercise and a lot more complicated.
So, we'll illustrate in a moment
how to go through that.
The other aspect of bind--the other
bonus that you get with bindings
though is user interface friendliness.
One of the other things that you may
want to do when putting together a full
featured application is ensure that
The users presented with a
meaningful interface for all
values of all of your model data.
It may be helpful if you have a nil
value where the user is required to
actually enter a value if you place
a placeholder into a text field,
for example,
to tell them that's what's required.
If they've selected multiple
values that are all supposed to be
presented into the same text field,
it may be useful to present them
with a multiple value marker.
All of these things are possible
using traditional Cocoa development,
but they're fiddly.
With bindings,
in addition to just keeping
everything synchronized,
you get this behavior for free.
So, I'll now do a quick demo.
So, it's going to be one of the most
trivial demos that you'll see ever,
I think,
at this conference of showing three
different approaches to keeping the
slider and the text field in sync.
For the data object,
we're just going to keep things very
simple and use a mutable dictionary.
So,
To start off with,
a very simple Cocoa application.
imagine to be named and all
I'm going to do is to add
[Transcript missing]
Some of you, who here was ever involved
in the Next community?
Anybody?
Wow.
Who here actually saw Mr.
Jobs demonstrate this
a decade and a bit ago?
Okay, so some people,
for some people this is
going to be familiar.
So imagine yourselves in pretty much
this exact location displaced by about
300 yards about a dozen years or so ago.
This is the demo that
Steve Jobs gave back then,
and you can connect these
two widgets together.
with take value, float value from,
connect them together.
Ooh.
Now, of course, when he did it,
he got a huge round of applause, but...
That was because that was a big
deal back a dozen or so years ago.
Nobody else was doing this.
I haven't even compiled anything.
I haven't got any sleeves
to have any code up.
So this was actually
quite magical back then.
Nowadays,
that's of course fatally flawed.
The two widgets are kept in sync,
but the data object
doesn't appear anywhere.
If we actually want to record the
value that's being set anywhere,
we've still got to reach
out into the user interface.
So, today,
We will draft an application
that looks rather more like this,
where we have
An interface with text field and slider
connected up to a controller object,
which manages then the underlying
data object and action messages.
So we've got target action set up for
the text field and for the slider,
and connections outlets
from the controller going
out into the user interface.
Anybody mystified by that?
Straightforward.
In the Controller object,
we have two outlets, our data object,
model object, an action method,
and some accessor methods.
And the action method,
very straightforward.
We get the object value from the
sender and update everything.
And that works.
Hooray.
Okay.
That's a trivial example, but as I said,
think about this then with a number,
a large number of different text fields,
sliders, what have you.
Certainly the number of outlets
that you have to deal with,
the number of code,
the amount of code that you have
to write to update everything
and so on becomes much more,
um, becomes much more of it.
With bindings, instead,
what we can do is say,
let's get rid of the outlets.
I'm not bothered
about the update method,
the action method.
So that's code I can delete.
I'm going to go back to
[Transcript missing]
There's no target in action
for the user interface widgets.
What I want to do -- now,
bear with me for this one at the moment.
I'm not going to say very much about
controllers during this presentation.
I'm going to leave that
to the next presentation.
But a controller here is
serving as an abstraction for
the underlying data object.
Just trust me on this one.
I'm going to add a controller
object here and say that the
object that it represents,
its content object,
is bound to the controller's data object.
The value of this slider
is bound to the number.
of the underlying data object,
so the underlying mutable dictionary,
as is the text field.
If I build and run the application now,
first thing to note,
if you're watching very carefully,
when I ran the first application,
the number field was blank, even though
There was actually a value for
number in the mutable dictionary.
It didn't appear.
Now, as I've used bindings,
that number's appeared automatically.
And the two values are still
kept in sync appropriately,
this time though with no glue code.
So that's the simplest example I could
come up with for how bindings work.
So let's go back and see what we did.
One of the things I found as
I was putting this presentation
together was there's a lot
of talk now about unit tests.
We found out we've actually got unit
tests for bindings presentations.
And it turns out that bindings
presentations cannot be given without
a Model-View-Controller slide.
So this is my Model-View-Controller
slide for the bindings demo
to get through the test.
Who's not familiar with the
Model-View-Controller design pattern?
Excellent.
I think that--ooh, one person.
Okay.
Not sure if that was a genuine
or somebody just exercising
their rights to raise their hand.
Okay, excellent.
So it's a design pattern--I'll
skip through these then.
The first example that I showed
was basically not an example.
No ModelViewController design pattern,
simply connecting two UI widgets.
This is what happens if you simply
bind two View objects together.
So this is a reason for those
of you who've tried doing this,
don't do that.
You're leaving the
Model object out of it.
Traditional Cocoa binding,
we do have a model, we've got a model,
we've got a controller class,
a whole load of outlets,
and in a simple case like
the one I just demonstrated,
easy enough, more complicated user
interfaces gets more difficult.
With
Cocoa bindings we use an
abstraction in the NSController
I'm lying a little bit.
No outlets.
Often there may be still
reasons why you have outlets,
but in the example I just showed,
there was no need for them.
There's no target action,
although you can still use target
action in your applications.
There's no reason to completely
dispense with target action
where it's appropriate.
And there's no glue code.
So, where bindings fits in
with ModelViewController,
we've already had ModelViewController
supported by Cocoa up until now,
so models are reusable.
The classes that you're given
in the foundation framework,
views are reusable, app kit classes,
and now controls are reusable.
Oh, I'm sorry.
So the controller that I illustrated
was the object controller.
The one that you'll typically more
often see is the array controller.
Again, we're not going to talk any more
about these during this presentation.
Come to the next one to
hear more about these.
And then there's a special controller
for managing user defaults as well.
So that might beg the question then,
well, when do I have to do anything?
If it's all this easy.
Well, don't worry.
There's still plenty of scope for
you to add value to your application.
Clearly,
first thing when you're implementing
your own business logic.
You can implement your own model
classes that are rather more useful
than just a mutable dictionary.
So plenty of opportunity
there for you to add value.
You may want to implement
your own custom views.
Not every application is made
up of sliders and text fields.
There may be reasons why you want
to subclass Apple's controllers.
There may occasionally be reasons
why you need to establish bindings
programmatically and various other
initialization stuff as well.
So don't worry.
There's still plenty of work that you're
able to do to another good living.
So,
with that preamble then out of the way,
let's turn back to the bindings
themselves and look in more detail at,
well, first of all, what is a binding?
Apologies for -- I'm going to
try just reading this definition.
So I don't like reading
directly from slides,
but I will in this case.
A binding, I'd like to suggest,
is a collection of information that
specifies what attribute of one object
should be kept synchronized with what
property of another with what options.
That's a longish sentence,
but conveys the basic idea.
It simply says that a binding in the
example that we just showed had for
a value of a text field can be kept
in sync with the number attribute
or property of a mutable dictionary.
It says keep this in sync with that.
The options bit is tagged on at the
end because occasionally there may be
transformations that you want to make
between the two or you may want to say,
well, if that value doesn't exist,
show something different up here.
But in essence,
a binding is simply saying,
"I've got a widget over here,
a model object over here.
Keep these two synchronized." And here,
the binding is basically the
information that tells you how
to keep the two things in sync.
One of the words that I stressed
earlier was "Bindings are established
rather than created." And I put
on there "Think target action."
How many people here-- another
hand-raising opportunity.
How many people here were mystified
first time you used-- first time you
used target action in Interface Builder?
So when you do that "Controll-y Drag-y,"
I've got a widget-y thing over here,
and then I can Control-click
in this funny gray line.
So I'm pretty sure that certainly
in all the training that I did,
most people ended up going, "What?
What did I just do?"
And then eventually,
after you got used to it for a while,
you realized, "Oh, well,
if I look in the documentation," hint,
If I look in the documentation,
I find that all these widgety
things inherit from NSControl.
And NSControl has two instance variables:
target and action.
All I'm doing when I do that control
draggy clicky thing is actually
setting those two instance variables.
All I'm doing when I do that control
draggy clicky thing is actually
setting those two instance variables.
Who set up target and action in code?
Anybody?
So just send a set target or
set action message to a widget?
Anybody feel that they
could not do it if asked?
Okay, it's easy.
There's no magic there.
There's simply instance variables
in that control that record the
information that you're setting when
you do that control draggy thing.
That's basically an analogous
thing that's happening in bindings.
You're specifying a
collection of information.
To complicate things a little bit,
let's go on a tangent on the
different -- there are two broadly
speaking two types of binding.
Let's also just quickly go on -- mention
something about single value bindings
and the example that I just gave,
I just bound the value of a text field.
You're not constrained just
to using a binding for the
actual value that's displayed.
There may be other attributes for
which there are bindings as well.
We could have bound the color.
We could have bound the font size.
We could have bound whether
or not the field is enabled.
So all of these things are attributes
of the text field that could be bound,
which is going to concentrate on the
most simple and the most obvious one.
That's a single value binding.
There may be occasions where you
have multiple value bindings.
You may have an attribute of a text field
or an attribute of some other object
whose value depends on the concatenation
or combination of other values.
So apologies for the
denseness of the next slide,
but again, it's reasonably simple.
Basically, there are three different
types of multivalued bindings:
pattern value bindings,
value with pattern bindings,
multiple Boolean bindings,
and multiple value argument bindings.
So the first one,
value with pattern bindings,
the canonical example of that
is hash out of hash in a text
field where you want to build
"Controller" is a text string
that tells you how many objects
you've selected from a table view.
The actual string value is built
from a combination of the number
of objects selected and the number
of objects in the table view.
So a binding that's
dependent on multiple values.
Multiple Boolean value, we may have
"An enabled binding
of a button that says,
'This button is only able to be enabled
if...' I've got a selection in here,
I've got a selection in here,
and this value's null.
So all of those things,
oh and then sorry,
multiple value argument bindings,
I'll defer then to Ron's presentation,
the next bindings presentation,
he'll talk more about those.
All of these are things that typically,
if you're writing your own code,
are difficult to do.
Well, actually not that difficult,
just tedious again to do.
Bindings makes it very
straightforward with no code involved.
I mentioned when we were talking
about the definition of a binding,
keeping this widget value attribute in
sync with this particular data property,
possibly with some options.
There's a number of options that
we might set for a binding as well.
One of them is value transfer,
which we'll talk about later.
Selection markers allow you to do the
user interface friendliness to say,
okay, well, if I don't have a value for
this particular attribute,
what do I want to display
to the user and so on.
And then there may be various
other parameters that are
available for a particular binding.
For those,
read the relevant documentation.
So there's a huge number of
different options that may be set
in various different circumstances.
So, now that we know what
a binding actually is,
how do they work?
What I want to do here is
go through what I'm -- well,
actually,
I think I need to give credit to
somebody else -- go through a sort of
progressive JPEG-style introduction.
So what I mean by that is,
where I think a number of people
have found problems with bindings is
it's actually a number of different
technologies and aspects of those
technologies that you need to
understand altogether in order to be
able to figure out what's going on.
So we've already said there are going
to be three different technologies
that are required to support bindings.
I could go into detail about
one of those technologies,
then another, then another, and so on.
But as we go through that,
all that's going to mean is that, "Okay,
well, I understand what this
technology means in isolation,
but I've got no idea how all of this
fits in together." So imagine a sort
of progressive JPEG instead where,
when you first start
downloading a picture,
for example, you see this big picture.
"There's got some sort of bluish
stuff over the top and some greenish,
sort of greeny blobby stuff and
maybe some browny bits in the middle.
You don't know, well you may guess,
but you don't know necessarily that
that's actually going to be sky,
that's going to be grass,
and this is grandma's house in
the middle with a sort of smoke
coming out of it and what have you.
So what I'm going to try to do is say,
well okay,
let's at least paint this broad
brush picture and then go into
details and figure out eventually,
okay,
that's grandma's house in the middle.
So we're going to actually
see some of the same slides,
some of the same concepts revisited on
several occasions as we go through this,
but in increasing amounts
of detail as we go through.
So, first of all then, well actually,
well first of all we'll just mention
a quick word about design principles,
what lies behind this,
but then we'll talk about,
well how do you actually
establish bindings?
What are the technologies
that underlie bindings?
So how does this thing actually work?
How are updates propagated
through the system?
So if you make an edit to something in
either the user interface or in a model,
to a model value,
how does that change propagated?
Well then look and see what are
the different parts of a binding.
So decompose the different aspects of it.
And then finally, we'll just see, well,
if you were wanting to write
your own bindings-enabled view,
what would you have to do?
First, design principles.
To give a lead into the
technologies that are involved,
notice the key value parts
to those three technologies,
key value coding, observing, and binding.
The main requirement for all of these
technologies is that they should work
with the code that you already have.
We don't want to require you to
have to write special-- certainly
if you're on model classes,
for example,
we don't want to require you to
write particular accessor methods.
We don't want our classes to have to know
what your custom methods are and so on.
We want this to work
with any of your classes.
So key value coding gives us an
abstraction that facilitates this.
We'll come back to key
value coding in a moment.
Turninging then to how do you
actually establish bindings,
well, there are two ways.
We just saw one way,
and that was most of you-- or it looked
like most of you already tried this.
You can establish bindings
in Interface Builder.
You can also do it in code.
In both cases, it comes down to using the
key value binding protocol.
So, quick hint as to where we're going.
In both cases,
We're using the Key-Value
Binding Protocol.
So,
what is the Key-Value Binding Protocol?
It consists of a few methods.
The first one,
bind to object with key path options,
is the one that's actually
used to establish a binding.
In some cases, you may actually want
to remove a binding,
in which case you can
use the unbind method.
If you're using Interface
Builder and you want to create a
bindings-enabled view of your own,
in order to advertise to
Interface Builder what
bindings there are available,
you can use the "exposeBinding"
and "exposeToBindings" method.
And in order to make sure that
Interface Builder only allows the
right sort of thing to be hooked up,
you can use value class binding.
Most of these,
and there aren't very many to begin with,
as far as we're concerned as beginners,
are pretty much irrelevant.
The only one we're really
interested in is this one:
establishing a binding.
So that's one method,
not an awful lot to it.
To see how it works,
I want to go through a slightly
more complicated example.
So, this is going to require a little
bit of talking through to begin with.
Imagine a scenario where you've
written a drawing application.
In your application,
you have a single graphic object
that is able to have a shadow.
In the diagram, the graphic object is
represented by the blue circle,
the shadow by the gray
circle that lies behind it.
In your code,
you may have an underlying graphic
object with two instance variables.
What you might want to do is to write
some sort of an inspector panel.
[Transcript missing]
There are two ways you can do this with
straightforward text fields or you may
want to create your own custom joystick.
class.
So the view, the top,
in the top part of the shadow inspector,
I'm going to call
So, in your application,
you may have a graphic
object that represents
The circle with shadow offset and
shadow angle instance variables.
Followinging on from or following
on from the example that just
the demo gave at the outset,
we may have a controller object
of some description that manages
that to which we can make bindings.
The bindings that we want to make
in this case are going to be four.
The first one
I'm sorry, there's only five.
The first one is actually binding
the content of the controller.
"We want to bind the value of the
offset text field to the shadow offset
of the underlying graphic object.
We want to bind the value of the object
to the shadow offset of the underlying
"The offset of our inspector
of the joystick thing to the
same value for the angle,
we're going to do something a
little bit more complicated.
We're going to bind the value of the
angle text field to the underlying
shadow offset of that graphic object,
but with a little bit of a difference.
This time it's going to go
through a value transformer.
If you look carefully,
the value in the text field and the
value of the shadow angle as represented
in the graphic object are different.
Let's imagine that, for whatever reason,
we're representing the angle in
our graphic object in radians.
On screen, we want to represent it
to the user in degrees.
So we'll add a value transformer
to this to make it easier.
We can do a similar thing for
the angle in the joystick.
So we're going to bind the angle
attribute of the joystick to
the selection's shadow offset.
And again, imagine that the joystick
is using degrees natively.
So it needs to transform the value
from the underlying graphic object,
which is in radiance, to degrees.
So we're going to apply a value
transformer to that as well.
To begin with,
let's forget though about the joystick
and concentrate on the more simple.
task of just setting up the
bindings for the text field.
So, how do we do this?
Establishing a binding.
We want to bind the value of that
angle text field to the shadow angle.
of the graphic the way that we saw before
was to do that in Interface Builder.
Straightforward enough-ish?
Everybody with me on there?
So we could simply inspect the
binding in Interface Builder,
set a number of values in there.
To explain what the values are,
top left hand corner tells us
what the name of the binding is.
The slightly confusing thing,
and this is analogous then to the control
draggy thing that you do in Interface
Builder with target action again,
is the key path.
I'm sorry.
Next we need the object
that you're binding to.
The slightly confusing
thing is the key path.
We've actually got two combo boxes
which together can specify the key path.
So both of these values,
if there are indeed two values there,
get concatenated.
And I think this is one of the
things that confuses people.
In the big block of widgets underneath,
we have a collection of options.
Imagine that we want to
do the same thing in code.
If we want to do the same thing in code,
remember that
Underneath,
bindings are established using
the key-value binding protocol.
What did we say there was in that?
Just one method.
So if you wanted to set
up this binding in code,
there's just a single method call.
We would have to send a message to
the text field to tell it to bind its
particular attribute to something.
In this particular case,
we tell it that it's going to
bind its value to a particular
object using a particular key path
and with a collection of options.
So these two ways of establishing
a binding are identical.
If there's nothing else that
you take away from this talk,
I'd please like you to try to
remember this particular slide.
I hope that more than anything this
will help to demystify in particular
that inspector in Interface Builder.
Is there anybody here who feels they
could not write one line of code?
in Interface Builder, think to yourself,
underneath is just one line of code.
I can write one line of code.
That's easy.
It's just a question of figuring out,
as ever in Cocoa,
well what is that line of code?
"So, we now want to see, well, okay,
I think you should have got
most of the way there already,
but let's then drill down
into details and see,
well, how would you actually figure out
what it is that you want to write?
I also want to have a look then at, well,
what are the other technologies
that make all this stuff work?
So it's okay saying, okay,
we're going to establish this binding.
What do we do after that?
Editor value.
Consider what happens when the user
edits a value in the text field.
What happens is key value coding is
used to push the new value from a
text field down to the controller,
applying in this case a value
transformer if we specified one.
Key value coding is used to push
values from the controller down
to the underlying graphic object.
Key value observing is
used to notify objects,
anybody who's interested
in changes to values.
Key value observing, and in this case,
again,
using a value transformer if appropriate,
is used to notify anybody who's
interested in the other value update.
So to summarize that,
Key-value coding is a technology
that's used to push values from the
user interface down to the model.
Key-value observing is what's used
to notify anybody who's interested in
changes to underlying model values.
And the user interface elements can
then update themselves appropriately.
Key Value Coding.
And anybody not come across
KeyValue Coding before?
Okay, one.
So KeyValue Coding, very simple API.
It gives you a means of accessing
an object's properties using a key.
So
Maybe I'll just click through
and encourage you to read the
documentation then on this,
because it's pretty straightforward then.
The main thing that trips--one
of the things that trips people
up when using key value coding,
particularly for those of you
getting on to using core data,
is the key value coding
for too many relationships.
Who's not come across these mutable
collection value for keys methods?
Okay, so this is new for some people.
So, when you have too many relationships,
There are two methods:
mutable array value for key,
mutable set value for key.
These are methods that you can use
to manipulate the contents of a
collection using key value coding.
You can use those methods to
retrieve a proxy which you can
then send appropriate messages.
So for those of you who've got
confused as to why some values aren't
updated or found that it's a little
bit difficult to manipulate arrays
or sets using key value coding,
have a look at those methods.
Those may be the ones that you want.
Keypaths are an extension of key
value coding that allow you to
follow relationships between objects.
So imagine you've got an employee
object that has a manager
that's another employee object,
and an employee has a
first name property.
You can ask for an employee's
manager's first name by using value
for keypath manager.firstname.
Important to note here that
we're using value for key path
rather than value for key.
That's another one that trips people up.
Similarly, we have set value for
keypath to update the value.
Another aspect of key value coding,
key value coding validation.
So coming back to what can you do
to add value to your application,
this is going to be again
particularly relevant for
those of you using core data,
but still relevant,
but still valuable for people writing
your own model classes at the moment.
KVC validation gives you a
consistent means of defining validation
methods for individual properties.
So there's a generic form
of the validation method,
ValidateValueForKeyError.
You can in your own model class implement
validate key name error methods.
In the body of the method,
you can then determine, well,
is the value that's being passed
in something that I'm happy with?
If it is, simply return yes.
If no, then first of all create a new
NSError object and then return no.
If you look carefully,
the input value is typed there as ID*.
That's not a typo.
You're passed in a pointer to an ID.
So within the body of
a validation method,
you do actually have the opportunity
to replace the value that's
passed in and massage it into
something that you actually want.
Generally, we're discouraging
people from doing that,
though, because of memory
management implications.
And again,
the documentation explains why that is.
So,
Looking to see how key value
coding works when we send updates.
Again, user types a new value into
the angle text--into the angle.
Text field, type a new value in,
key value coding is used to
pass that value down to the
underlying graphic object.
The graphic object, if it implements key
value coding validation,
does have an opportunity to reject
that value if an appropriate
flag is set for the binding,
otherwise it's updated.
What do you actually have to do in
order to support key-value coding?
Well, I hope most of you have
found actually not very much,
for the most part.
It's actually really quite difficult
not to be key-value coding compliant.
"Tipically,
all that's expected is that you implement
the appropriate accessor methods."
Please, that's something you
should be doing anyway.
Writing and using accessor methods
makes memory management a lot easier.
So if you implement accessor methods,
follow the key--the appropriate naming
conventions for accessor methods,
life will be an awful lot easier.
It becomes a little bit
more complicated for arrays,
so the special array access
methods you may want to implement.
Again, that's covered in documentation.
Turn to key value observing the other
technology that supports Cocoa bindings
in order to actually notify the rest
of your application or notify elements
of an application of changes to values.
There are two parts to KVO.
Think a little bit, think in terms of an
analogous thing here,
maybe notification centers.
If you're using notification centers,
there are two parts to
using a notification center.
First of all,
you've got to register to say, "Hey,
I'm interested in this particular
sort of notification." Secondly,
then,
you've got to receive messages back from
the notification center if the events
that you're interested in actually occur.
It's a similar thing with KVO.
You first have to say, "Hey,
I'm interested in this particular
property of this particular object."
Secondly,
you've got to have a means of being
told that that value has changed.
So registrations go by addObserver
for the keypath options context.
The difference between notification
centers and KVO is that whereas with
notification centers you can specify
the message that's going to get sent
back to you if the event occurs,
with KVO there is a single method
that's used as a choke point
for all KVO notifications and
that's observe value for key
path of object change context.
So all KVO notifications go
back through this one method.
So in terms of establishing our binding.
The different user interface
elements have to first of all,
in order to get KVO to work,
say what property it is of what
object they're interested in,
so they have to register as an observer
of the thing that they're bound to.
If that value changes,
they get a message back.
They observe value for key path message.
So to recap, this is how you register.
So this is what happens
when a binding is set up.
This is what happens
when a value changes,
in this case when a value
changes in the model.
What do you actually have
to do to support KVO?
Well, in general, again,
not really very much other
than simply follow the same
"Controller layerissippi" is a
key value code that allows you to
change key value for key value code.
Support automatically added at runtime.
So you don't have to do anything.
If you want to, you can disable automatic
KVO notifications and switch
on manual notifications,
in which case you can use "Will change
value for key" and "Did change value
for key," in which case your accessor
methods might start looking like this.
Notice that I've put here
the KVO notification methods
into an accessor methods.
One of the things I've noticed on the
list in particular is people seem to
want to just sprinkle KVO notifications
throughout their code and sort
of hope that bindings then start
working magically as a result.
No, that's not going to work.
There's got to be a rational reason
for actually posting KVO notifications
and typically the place that you
would put these methods is in your
accessor methods around the place
where the value actually changes.
So where have we got to?
Three main technologies,
key value observing, key value coding,
key value binding.
You use key value binding to
actually establish the binding,
key value coding to push values from
the user interface down to the model,
key value observing to receive
notifications of changes
of values to the model.
You don't have to do very much
to actually support KVC and KVO.
So now, to look at those in more detail.
Let's have a look and see what you would
actually have to do if you wanted to
implement your own bindings-enabled view.
How would you do the joystick thing?
In this, we're going to concentrate still
on the angle part of things.
So, first of all, establishing a binding.
What do we actually have to do?
Think back, first of all,
to the target action example.
With target action,
we had a widget that you control dragged,
and when you control dragged,
you set two instance variables,
target and action.
Can I just check,
everybody okay with target and action
as instance variables of NS control?
Anybody still sort of mystified by that?
How many people figured out within
one day that that's what was going on?
How many people did it take one week?
How many people did it take a month?
How many people forget
it out this morning?
Okay, it's really like,
it's really getting sort of
hand fatigue or something.
Okay, so with the control,
when we do that control drag thing,
we're simply setting
those instance variables.
So we've got a way of
recording the information.
What's a good way of recording
information in a class then?
Well, in instance variables.
So if we're setting up the angle binding
and other bindings for our joystick,
there's a whole lot of information
that we need to collect.
Conceptually, at least,
one way of doing this is simply
to use instance variables.
So we can provide our joystick
class with a whole set of
instance variables in which we
can collect all that information.
Simple.
The one thing that's a little
bit complicated at this,
lurking down at the bottom,
is the angle observation context,
which I'm going to add to this.
will come back to that later.
But at the moment,
the main thing to concentrate on is,
look, all we've got is a collection
of instance variables in which
we can store information.
So,
What actually happens in our bind method?
The bind method is sent when
the binding is established,
so all we have to do is to
collect that information together.
So the bind method is a little bit long.
Notice the arguments
highlighted there in orange.
First thing, which binding is it?
In this case, we're wanting to set
up the angle binding,
so is the binding name that's being
passed in the one we're interested in?
Okay, yes if it is, then.
We must register as an observer
of the object whose property
This particular attribute is bound to.
So if we're saying, okay,
joystick's angle's got to be kept
in sync with this object's whatever,
the joystick has got
to observe this thing.
That's all that that's doing.
So Joystick is saying, "Hey,
Model Object, I'm interested in this
particular property.
The angle identifier,
angle binding identifier is
important here because that...
particular variable will be sent
back to you in the observed message.
So what you're saying with
by providing that context is,
When you tell me that
that value has changed,
also pass back this context so that
I know what it is you're talking about.
Remember everything's channeled back
through that one single observe message.
So you've got to have a
means of disambiguating.
Other than that,
the next three things are simply
recording the other information.
So, we need to record, well,
what is--what object is it
we're actually being bound to,
so that if our value is updated,
push that through.
What's the key path to the
property that we're interested in?
And then, is there any value transformer?
So, in the options, the only thing we're
actually interested in,
in this particular example,
is a value transformer.
So, if there's a value transformer,
record that as well.
And that's it.
[Transcript missing]
for any of the other bindings
that we might want to set up,
but they all follow pretty
much the same pattern.
The bind method arguments tell you
everything that you're interested in.
So you say, "Okay,
I need to observe that particular
property of that object,
and then I need to record that
information." And that's it.
What actually happens
when there are updates,
though?
There are two ways in
which updates might happen.
First of all, view initiated,
so if somebody clicks within the joystick
to move the shadow angle and offset.
Or, say if something's
initiated above the model.
So maybe if somebody had clicked
in the text field and there'd
been an update to the model and
it had propagated its update.
So, for a view initiated update,
imagine that somebody clicks
somewhere inside the view,
and we channel all of those,
so say mouse dragged, mouse down,
mouse up, and so on,
through an updateForMouseEvent method.
So we're going to look at the
implementation of our updateForMouseEvent
method and see how we would then
deal with that using bindings.
What we're going to have
to do is update the model,
or update the object
to which we're bound.
Remembering first of all how the binding
was established in Interface Builder
and what code was associated with that.
If we have a look at the code,
bind to object with key path options
From the perspective of an update
that's handled by the view itself,
the bind argument tells you
"What attribute of your own is it
going to be updated?" The "ToObject"
argument tells you what remote
object you need to update.
The "WithKeyPath" argument
tells you what property it is
of that object and options,
whatever other options are specified.
So, in our updateForMouseEvent method,
The first thing that we
need to do is calculate,
okay, what's the new angle for
this particular example?
Then, first of all, check to see,
are we actually observing anything?
If we haven't actually been,
if bindings haven't been established,
then don't bother.
So, are we actually observing anything?
If so, then, for the options that
we're allowed to be set,
do we have a value transformer?
If there is a value transformer,
Apply it.
And then simply update the remote
value of the observed object's
value using key value coding.
And that's it.
Really, it just boils down to--
"That penultimate line,
not an awful lot to it,
and then you can do
everything else you want."
So pretty simple, I think.
Conversely, if the model's updated,
remember everything in key-value
observing then gets channeled
through this one observe method.
So from the perspective of the bindings,
we can rearrange the order of
the bind method a little bit
to figure out what's going on.
What the bind method means from the
perspective of key-value observing
is if the property defined by
the argument to the withKeyPath
part of the method changes on
the object that we're observing,
update whatever attribute it
is internally that's defined by
the binding name and apply any
options that were specified.
So in our Observe method,
the first thing that we want
to do is check to see what the
context is that's coming back.
What is it that we're interested in?
We specify the context when we register.
So remember,
the context is going to be sent
back to us in the Observe method.
So this is what we can use
to disambiguate different
observation notifications.
If it's the one that we're interested in,
an apologies then for using
short variable names here,
but it was the only way everything
could fit onto one slide.
First of all,
find out what the new value is.
Secondly, so there's one little bit
of a new API here for Tiger.
Figure out first of all,
is it one of these multiple
value marker things?
If it's not,
then if there's a value transformer,
apply it to the new value,
and then simply update your own value,
update the display, and so on.
Paul's from over there.
Again,
the long method names and the long,
Long variables may make things
a little bit more confusing,
but really there are only about two
lines of important code in there.
I don't think that should be
beyond anybody in this room
if you've paid to come here.
Is that straightforward enough?
Does anybody look-- oh,
can we just all sort of turn
around and just do that?
This is my signal that
there's five minutes left.
Yay, I saw.
So, where have we got to?
To summarize,
we've got three main technologies:
key value coding, key value observing,
key value binding.
Key value binding used to
actually establish the bindings.
What I have gone through
today thus far is enough
in principle for you to
understand how bindings,
how you can actually create
your own bindings-enabled view.
I hope that what you have
seen from this is there's
actually not an awful lot to it.
Is anybody still completely
mystified by this?
That's encouraging.
Is it simpler than some people
thought it was going to be?
Who still thinks it is
horribly complicated?
Who still thinks it's a
little bit complicated?
That's fair.
The main thing is it's
not horribly complicated,
so that's the--
Actually,
one of the analogies I didn't make
at the outset that some of you
probably have heard me make before
is that of emergent behavior.
So one of the analogies I sometimes
like to make is that of an ant hill.
I've never actually seen an ant hill,
but I would imagine that
looking at an ant hill,
it's horribly complicated.
You have all this stuff going on,
all these ants scurrying
around and what have you,
and trying to make sense of how
they actually built the thing,
how all the passages work,
how they figure out where to go
and food and all the rest of it.
It looks horribly, horribly complicated.
From the perspective
of an individual ant,
though, an individual ant is never
going to win a Nobel Prize.
They're not very complicated animals.
They don't do an awful lot individually.
Put a whole load of them together though
and you get this emergent behavior.
Things look complicated.
What I'd like you to try to think
of when you look at bindings is,
well actually the technologies
that I just went through are
individually all very simple.
It shouldn't have been beyond
the wit of anybody in this room
certainly to understand any of
the technologies individually.
Putting them together makes really
interesting things happen though.
Sometimes I admit that the
way the manifestation of that
combination can be confusing.
But underneath,
just dig through it a little bit,
step back and think,
well each of those things
individually are simple.
There's not much to it.
Anyway,
coming back then to the main thing,
because I'm going to overrun
now by two minutes again,
sorry.
A quick talk about Value Transformers,
and then I'll give a
quick heads up again about
controllers.
But both of these are going to be
covered in the following talks.
So I mentioned value transformers,
what are value transformers.
You can think of value transformers
as being a little bit like formatters
but lightweight sort of a formatter.
If you want to use value transformers
in instance interface builder you
have to register them by name.
Foundation gives you a
set of three of them.
Cocoa gives you a set of three of
them by default for testing for
nil values and archiving and so on.
But you can create and register your own.
So there's not an awful lot
to the value transformers API.
A method to tell you what class
it is that you're dealing with,
whether or not it transforms by
direct--accepts bidirectional
transformation and then methods to
actually transform an incoming value.
If you want to use an Interface Builder,
you have to register a new
instance for a particular name,
and you typically do this
in an initialized method.
But other than that,
this is the implementation of a
Radiance Degrees Value Transformer.
Not very much to it.
Again,
shouldn't be beyond anybody in this room.
"Controllers" mentioned basically I'm
just going to say very quickly that there
are three different sorts of controller:
object controller, array controller,
and preferences controller
that I mentioned before.
Ron's going to talk a bit
more about these in his talk.
One of the questions that comes up is,
though,
is why do we actually want controllers?
What do they do?
Well, one of the most important things
is that the controllers give
you a degree of abstraction.
So rather than binding
directly to a model object,
the controller gives you a means
of changing the model object
out from underneath whatever
it is that you're bound to.
So you're not
hard wiring bindings for
a particular text field,
for example, to a particular model.
More importantly,
there are two other protocols that
Controls implement-- an Editor and
an Editor-editor registration-- which
help to ensure that if a user's part
way through typing values into a
text field when a window's closed,
those values are committed down to the
model if the window's closed or whatever.
And they also provide
the selection markers.
So please, please,
please do always use controllers.
May not seem like you need them,
but they're very useful.
Selection markers, I just mentioned,
are the special
[Transcript missing]
So all of those are going to be
things that are covered in the
next talk and in the documentation,
various other samples, and so on.
So I would encourage you to
go to the following session.
And if appropriate,
Matthew Formica is very happy to
personally answer any question
that you have on bindings directly,
so please email him directly
with all of your questions.
An alternative,
is to use the Cocoa Developeroper list.
So a number of you have already
taken advantage of that option.
But in the interim,
the joystick example that I gave is
now officially part of the sample code.
Read through, have a look at that.
Have a look at the documentation
and other resources.